chore: document public configuration (#832)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/100-upgrade/migration-guides/3.2-3.3.mdx

---
title: 3.2 -> 3.3
description:
  This page lists the highlights for upgrading a project from Front-Commerce 3.2
  to 3.3.
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## Update dependencies

Update all your `@front-commerce/*` dependencies to this version:

```shell
pnpm update "@front-commerce/\*@3.3.0"
```

## Code changes

### Remix entrypoints

> In this release, we added new features that required to hook into your Remix
> application entrypoints created with the initial skeleton.<br /> You must update

Reviewer: **nitpick:** it's not necessary new features.

**suggestion:** use a broader sentence format

```suggestion
In this release, we improved features that required to hook into your Remix
application files created with the initial skeleton.<br /> You must update
```

  FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_DISABLE_PASSWORD_HINT,
} = process.env;

const example = {
  analyticsWarningDisable: FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_ANALYTICS_WARNING_DISABLE,
  disablePasswordHint: FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_DISABLE_PASSWORD_HINT,
  myCustomValue: process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_MY_CUSTOM_VALUE,
};
```

After:

```js
import { getPublicConfig } from "@front-commerce/core/react";

// After running your application for the first time,
// you should have all typed values in the public config
const publicConfig = getPublicConfig();

const example = {
  analyticsWarningDisable: publicConfig?.analytics?.disableDevWarning ?? false,
  disablePasswordHint: publicConfig?.password?.disablePasswordHint ?? false,
  myCustomValue: getPublicConfig("FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_MY_CUSTOM_VALUE"), // This will warn with a deprecation message
};
```

:::caution

We highly suggest that you move any of your custom values to a new config
provider which extends the `public` schema.

See [Public configurations documentation](/docs/3.x/guides/public-configuration)
for more details.

:::

## Automated Migration

```shell
pnpm run front-commerce migrate --transform 3.3.0

> ```

Reviewer: **thought:** it looks like a step we'll have during every release. Shouldn't we move this before each specific section? (i.e: right after the dependency update section)

Author: It makes sense yes.

parameter.

:::

### Deprecate `process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_*` usage

> **Breaking:** In this release, we updated the way we handle public

Reviewer 2: **thought:** Should we add a "breaking" badge component to make those case even easier to spot?

Author: ![BreakingBadChemistryGIF](https://github.com/front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com/assets/39598117/712d8cf8-6b32-4fce-9506-0eaadef75df6)

It would be good, but I don't have capacity to add it at the moment.

Before:

```js
const {
  FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_ANALYTICS_WARNING_DISABLE,
  FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_DISABLE_PASSWORD_HINT,
} = process.env;

const example = {
  analyticsWarningDisable: FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_ANALYTICS_WARNING_DISABLE,
  disablePasswordHint: FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_DEV_DISABLE_PASSWORD_HINT,
  myCustomValue: process.env.FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_MY_CUSTOM_VALUE,
};
```

After:

```js
import { getPublicConfig } from "@front-commerce/core/react";

// After running your application for the first time,
// you should have all typed values in the public config
const publicConfig = getPublicConfig();

const example = {
  analyticsWarningDisable: publicConfig?.analytics?.disableDevWarning ?? false,
  disablePasswordHint: publicConfig?.password?.disablePasswordHint ?? false,
  myCustomValue: getPublicConfig("FRONT_COMMERCE_WEB_MY_CUSTOM_VALUE"), // This will warn with a deprecation message
};
```

:::caution

We highly suggest that you move any of your custom values to a new config
provider which extends the `public` schema.

See [Public configurations documentation](/docs/3.x/guides/public-configuration)
for more details.

:::

```

> ```

Author: oops 👀
